so let me just take you through where we
are a week since those Hamas attacks
because Israel is still urging civilians
to leave Northern Gaza as soon as
possible it specified two roads which
can be used by Palestinians heading
south well more than a million were told
on Friday to relocate before an expected
ground offensive Israel's prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu has said his
country's bombardment of Gaza is quote
just the beginning more Rockets have
been fired into Israel and Israeli air
strikes are continuing across Gaza
military sources in Israel say a senior
Hamas Commander is among those killed
Israeli forces are continuing their
buildup near the boundary with Gaza
while in the north of the country
Israeli troops killed several people
they identified as terrorists who were
trying to cross the border from Lebanon
and overnight Israel's military exchange
more crossborder fire with the Iranian
backed Lebanese group Hezbollah
the US Secretary of State anthonyy
blinkin as I was saying is in Saudi
Arabia on the latest stop of his tour of
the Middle East now Jordan's foreign
minister has accused Israel of flagrant
breaches of international law and warned
the displacement of civilians in Gaza
was pushing the whole region towards
conflict let me show you the live
pictures again at least 2,200 people in
Gaza have been killed in the strikes
over the last week and 1,300 Israelis
were killed by Hamas gunman over last
week and I just want to uh uh return to
that Ana quote that I was telling you
about a moment or two ago because those
sources there on the ground from the UN
saying that 1 million people have been
displaced in just one week so this their
latest tweet as you can just see as we
pull the strap away they are talking
about the Exodus they say a million
people have been displaced inside 7 Days
in the past 12 hours alone
hundreds of thousands of people have
been displaced The Exodus continues as
people move to Southern parts of the
Gaza Strip so that's some of the latest
information coming before we move on I
just want to take you to the pictures
here in central London outside of the
BBC and you can see huge crowds going
down Regent Street uh as Pro
Palestinian demonstrators gather here at
the B
before they will start moving towards
whiteall and we've seen similar scenes
uh across different parts of the world
as uh people come out and those the
pictures from just a slightly different
uh area just around the back of the BBC
is more and more people assemble here
for the start of that March down to
whiteall so that just gives you a
glimpse of what is happening here with
that at Pro Palestinian demonstration
and March but let's go back to what is
actually happening on the ground in Gaza
because I was giving you some of the
latest details coming from the UN well
uh Yan egeland is the Secretary General
of the Norwegian Refugee Council he was
involved with the oso Accords and
facilitated talks between the
Palestinians and Israelis now he talked
to the BBC a little earlier and gave us
his assessment of the humanitarian
situation in Gaza there are hundreds of
thousands of people fleeing for their
life there is
a not something that is should be called
an evacuation uh it's a forcible
transfer of people from all of Northern
Gaza which is according to the Geneva
Convention a war crime there is a a a a
Siege on Gaza which means that people
are starved there was a bombing at the
Rafa Crossing which everybody is
pointing to as the the only way Corridor
uh possible humanitarian Corridor in
into an area so I think really the the
UK the US the the EU all that have
rightfully said were with Israel in
fighting Terror after the worst Terror
in Israel's history I hope they haven't
given a green light to smash a million
children because that's what happening
now well there's been significant
diplomatic Fallout from the war Saudi
Arabia says it is paused talks on
normalizing relations with Israel well
Lord Malik Brown is a former deputy
Secretary General of the United Nations
he goes his thoughts on that
decision well I I think this was
anticipated it would have been
impossible for Saudi Arabia to have
continued them at this time uh you know
it has in recent years been quite quiet
on the issue of Palestinian rights but
when uh the events of this week unfolded
it you know raised its voice much more
clearly in defense of uh the Palestinian
people and it would be just in terms of
uh the Optics and politics of the region
impossible to press on uh in any effort
to to to normalize relations with with
Israel at the very same time that Israel
was seen as
attacking Palestinian Arab civilians in
Gaza but I don't know whether in the
longer term I mean I think this is now
up to Israel whether it wants to close
that door forever which would be the
result of a which will happen I think if
it makes a long-term occupation or
long-term military intervention uh into
Gaza or whether it recognizes the need
to contain its military action in as
Surgical and brief a form as possible so
that it can get this back on track
because for both Israel and Saudi AR
Arabia the stakes are high it would be a
reordering of of the Middle East in a
dramatic way and I think uh you know
there will be a desire to try once the
fighting is dies down to to try and
recover this
negotiation well the US secret of State
Anthony blinkin as we've been seeing is
in Riad in Saudi Arabia for those talks
it is the latest stop of his Middle East
tour let's have a list listen to a
little of what he's been saying uh no
country uh can or should uh be expected
to tolerate what um Israel uh has just
uh been on the receiving end of which is
uh an attack that almost defies
description and words in which more than
1300 of its people were slaughtered
along with the Nationals of more than 30
other countries by Hamas Hamas is not
representative of the Palestinian people
or their legitimate aspirations for the
future Hamas is a terrorist group its
only agenda is to destroy the state of
Israel and to murder Jews and it's
important that the entire world see it
as such at the same time as Israel
pursues its legitimate right to
defending its people and to trying to
assure that this never happens again it
is vitally important uh that all of us
look out for uh for civilians uh and
we're working together to do exactly
that uh in particular uh working on
establishing safe areas in Gaza working
on establishing corridors so that
humanitarian assistance can reach people
who need it uh none of us uh want to see
suffering by civilians on any side
whether it's uh in Israel whether it's
uh in Gaza uh whether it's anywhere else
and we're working together to do our
best to protect them I think um at the
same time it's uh vitally important and
I know that our countries agree uh that
we work together to make sure that to
the best of our ability this conflict
does not spread to other places on other
fronts and so I look forward to
discussing
that anony blinkin well with me here in
the studio is our Middle East Regional
editor Mike Thompson Mike uh give me
your assessment of this latest L of this
Middle East Tour and generally as he has
moved from Capital to Capital what
Anthony blinkin has been trying to do
here well he's trying to get together a
concerted anti- Hamas sort of uh um uh
grouping here amongst Arab countries but
he's having a a difficult time because
with the uh number of deaths as we've
just been hearing more than
2,200 and this imminent uh ground
offensive that'll begin fairly soon um
many Arab people are just outraged by by
this and uh not just of course in the
region but also as we've been seeing on
our television screens right across the
world and this is turning people most
notably actually Saudi Arabia who he's
with at the moment a key Ally who has
been encouraging to normalize relations
with Israel now Saudi has said as we've
been hearing that talks on that have
stalled this is what herass wants this
is Hamas wants to drive this W yes it
was one of the theories in terms of why
Hamas has actually done this one of the
theories was as we were edging closer to
that normalizing deal Saudi Arabia
crucial players it was to disrupt that
and to dismantle that but in terms of uh
The Wider going on and reaction in the
region interesting comments too from the
Jordanian foreign minister talking about
the abyss that was being approached
indeed yes and of course um secretary of
state had talks uh with uh uh with King
Abdullah of Jordan um and the country
has is is very very concerned about this
this this this Abyss as you just
mentioned there um and and Jordan is a
nation which has had strong relations
with the US so this has been in some
ways quite surprising and very
disappointing uh for Mr blinkon this
should be happening but it's really part
and parcel of what the attitudes that
are now sweeping that whole region and
there's worry because Jordanian foreign
minister was talking about the
displacement of people and only on news
night last night I was watching a senior
former military figure suggesting that
people should go over Palestinian should
go over into Egypt that is a real
concern isn't there that potentially
here the movement of Palestinians out of
the Gaza Strip completely indeed I mean
they're they're all going into areas
which in the main are quite agricultural
in the South there's very little to
support people to shelter people and
Egypt has made very clear that it
doesn't want refugees across the border
it's got about 280,000 people that fled
the war in Sudan for instance so it
doesn't feel able to deal with that that
could change of course under a lot of
international pressure uh because at the
moment people are being expelled into
into sort of nothingness in a way and
particularly those who are who are
injured and amongst them of course many
uh children as well presumably that is
why Anthony blinken uh continues to talk
and we saw it yesterday in katar about
these safe zones the discussions they're
having around that to try to set up
somewhere with a bit of infrastructure
for people to actually go to where where
are we in terms of the ability to do
that well it's still very complicated to
know quite where you would do that I
mean there could be an area inside Gaza
in the south of Gaza or it more likely
in in Egypt but as I said Egypt is very
worried about having temporary refugees
that it fears would become permanent the
other option of course is on the borders
of Gaza inside Israel and in a way that
might be easiest because Israel can
oversee the situation
and and as it's also responsible for the
barrage and for the what looks like BEC
coming off land offensive uh that would
make sense Michael final thought because
here we are a week since those Dreadful
attacks from Hamas and just about
everything in the region has changed
fundamentally and we are we know this
only at the beginning indeed and those
in fact were the words that Israel has
used prime minister Netanyahu has used
to say this is just the beginning and
you see the the the widespread concern
the the outrage in the Arab world the
outrage in Israel too of course after
those atrocities on Saturday um but
these are likely to deepen and deepen
significantly as soon as that land
assault uh happens because this is a
very crowded area there's going to be an
awful lot of life and it's going to be
on both sides Mike Thompson thanks for
going through all of that and Mike
talking about the hostages and we were
showing pictures from those events last
s they